Hi, I'm here to see Pierre Gassley.
>> Thanks very much. Pierre Gassley has
lived the full spectrum of Formula 1's
highs and lows. Now, as Alpine's lead
driver, he's tasked with helping revive
one of French Motorsports most ambitious
projects. So, this is Alpine
headquarters, and Pierre is going to be
here for the next couple days. He's
coming off a big race in Silverstone,
but he's got a really busy week ahead.
He's going to be in the simulator. He's
going to be debriefing with the team and
then he heads to Paris. In today's
Formula 1, drivers aren't just racers.
They're global brand ambassadors,
technical consultants, and brands unto
themselves. The demands of which extend
far beyond race day. But do those
demands carry their own risk of
eclipsing the sport itself or becoming
too much additional pressure for a young
driver to manage? He's looking at
building his own empire off the track
and outside the paddic. I'm going to
spend the week with him getting to
understand the business of Pierre
Gassley.
This is Power Players.
>> Hello.
>> Hey, how's it going? Thank you for
having me.
>> Yeah, no worries. Welcome uh to my
workplace.
>> I mean I Exactly. This is your office.
Pretty cool office.
>> It's a pretty special place. really get
a a sense of uh yeah the legacy and the
history of the team. So the
>> history you got the the current car
which the team has won two world
championship and all the silverware. So
it's it's a good motivation. We got the
present, we got the past, got the future
standing here.
>> Yeah, exactly. That's right. That's
right. And you know you're going to put
even more trophies here, right?
>> Yeah. Exactly. That's the that's the
goal. That's what we work for. Also,
>> take me back to those early days as
you're sort of falling in love with the
sport on your own, not just as something
that, you know, your father did. What
were those early days like?
>> It was beautiful. Like, obviously, you
know, taking me back to, you know, when
I was 6 years old. Um, had my first ever
go-kart test and my first feeling and
connection with speed, with the tarmac,
with tires, the driving, the adrenaline,
the thrill of being behind the wheel.
And that's where my love started for for
motorsport and um for formula 1. Then
there was the next chapter where for 3
years my family could not afford and
give me the chance to start the
competition. So they kind of got my
focus on my studies u challenge me and
you know saying focus on your on your
grades and if you come back home with
some good grades we'll try to give you
the chance and um yeah from the age of
nine I started the competition. Do you
remember that moment where you thought,
"Okay, I can make a living doing this."
>> I would say my turning point was signing
my first professional contract with Red
Bull, Red Bull F1 team. So, at that age,
16 years old, that's when I first
realized, okay, I have a professional,
let's say, program uh supporting me, and
now it's up to me to show them that I
deserve the chance to go to Formula 1. I
committed 100% and my family luckily and
gratefully supported me 100% into that
dream of of becoming an F1 driver. But
along the way, I had so many people
telling me, "Why are you doing it? 20
drivers in the world getting to formula.
Why do you waste your time? How can you
believe that you're going to be part of
that 0.1%
in the world to make it to F1? I don't
need that negativity. I'm aware that
most likely I'm not going to get there,
but I'm going to throw everything
possible to make it happen.
>> And he did make it happen. Gassley is
now the lead driver for Alpine and by
extension the central figure around whom
the company's operations revolve.
And this is Ian Pierce, Alpine's
operations director, who's been a
fixture of the company for 25 years.
Pierce knows as well as anyone how much
of a team effort it is to build a
winning product. You've been here for
quite some time. You you've made quite a
career here.
>> I was a young young man when I joined
and now I'm an old man. But um we have a
thousand people here and and we are
literally working day and night. We're
24/7 in some areas and and all we want
to achieve is is the best results
possible. We have two drivers here which
we we we put on a pedestal and we we
kind of idolize them in a way, but also
we recognize that they are our
colleagues and and that they will do the
hardest work that they can possibly do.
they will put maximum effort into
everything that they do. So, we must
achieve the same.
>> What's the feel when when the drivers
and especially Pierre are coming in
after a very successful day?
>> It's great to see the drivers after
they've they've had a fantastic race and
and there's a real buzz around the
factory uh when we've had a good result,
but without wishing to put a down on it,
we always want to do better. Where we
really want to be is P1.
>> So, we're in the ops room. Every race
weekend, every test session, we have
this room full of people and and they
range from vehicle performance
engineers, race engineers,
aerodynamicist,
control system engineers, and they are
giving full support to direct to the
circuit. It's all realtime data. It's
all live TV feeds. And in some cases,
you can actually talk direct to the
driver in the car from this room. as
well as the technology being able to uh
give us this opportunity. We're not
allowed to send as many people to the
circuit as we used to be able to. It's
all about extracting the maximum
performance. So the more people you can
have here analyzing this data and
feeding back to the circuit, the faster
we can go.
>> Amazing to think about the fact that,
you know, it's one thing to be
monitoring this when everybody's half an
hour away, but you're also able to do it
when people are halfway around the
world.
>> Yeah. Okay. Yeah. It's all in absolutely
real time. So whatever's happening here
is live from what's happening on the
circuit. If you see the driver on the TV
screen that they're turning the corner,
you'll see the data from the steering
angles, from the throttle position. And
we've seen numerous examples where this
room in conjunction with the simulator
and the people that analyze the
performance of the car and come up with
ideas of how to make the car go faster.
>> To help achieve that, Alpine, like all
F1 teams, has a machine shop running
round the clock. It implements the
real-time findings from the analytics
into real-time implementation in the
components and the tech.
>> This must be wild to sort of come in
here and see. I mean, all these people,
they're working on your car, like
they're working for you, right?
>> It feels pretty surreal. I'm I'm not
going to lie. You know, driving the
coolest and fastest F1 car in the world,
having a thousand people and there is
another 500ish in France working on the
engine. So you you're looking at 1500
people working on two cars. It's easy to
get overwhelmed thinking about it. Uh
but then after it's also realizing the
power that you have as a team all
together once you really work hard
together and get that really good
connection between all the departments
at the factory and how much you can
achieve as a team.
>> Do you feel pressure?
>> Massive.
>> Yeah,
>> massive pressure. But I felt more
pressure as a kid going up the ladder of
motorsports, not knowing whether from
one year to another my entire career was
going to stop. I had to win those races
from a very young age cuz I didn't have
the funding to make it to the next year.
And if I wouldn't win, I would not be
able to find sponsors to carry on. So
the pressure I felt as a kid was
tremendous and really
became so useful to manage the pressure
in Formula 1, which is very different,
but in a way more manageable from what
I've learned in the past um all over
those early days. This year we we're
having a pretty tricky season. We're
struggling with the car. The car is not
in the in the place we would like. So we
do need some motivation for next season
because
>> there is a huge opportunity as a team
and this these are the type of result
that really boost them and give them the
confidence, the extra energy to put the
work in and uh you know that will make
the difference uh over time.
>> I mean it really is a working office,
right?
>> Yeah. That's where you get your your
hands dirty. We spend a lot of time here
in the simulator to uh prepare um for
the coming Grand Prix, work on the
current car, try different setup. Uh but
then after, yeah, when we come here, I
think it's important for us to show up
uh you know to everybody because people
are working crazy number of hours for
yourself and you need to have that sort
of human link.
>> Even after going full tilt all weekend
at the track, part of Gazzley's typical
day at the office includes getting right
back behind the wheel. this time in a
simulator. The F1 sim not only helps
drivers train to drive faster, but also
how to do it safer and to avoid crashing
out, especially in extreme conditions.
>> So, before every Grand Prix, I will
spend a day in the simulator. Got to be
honest, you know, it's not my favorite
thing about the job. I'm a competitive
person. So, I need competition. I need
someone I got to beat. That's what
really excites me. And the simulator is
more like a development tool.
>> And you're working on the 26 car as
well, right? I mean, that's got to be a
piece of this, too.
>> This is what I I would say I really get
into because I can really feel as a race
driver. Um, I can have a strong input on
next year's development. It's pretty
impressive like the sort of feedback and
how realistic it gets. So, we compare
the real track data with what we get in
the sim,
>> right? Cuz part of it is your feedback
feeding in what it felt like at
different times. I'm in the simulator
trying the car in wet conditions and
making sure that at the end it's all
numbers and coding in there that's
everything matches with what we see on
track.
>> Simulating those conditions must be
crazy.
>> I personally enjoy because that's that's
where you get the most opportunities and
the biggest chances and it's always like
a risk and reward. How much you're
willing to risk knowing that there is
the big cheese coming your way but you
can lose everything at the same time. So
being in the car, you know, racing at
300 kph plus in these conditions gets
you to a level of adrenaline which
>> absolutely unmatched.
>> All right, so I'm going to let you get
to work. I'll see you in Paris. Good
luck today.
>> See you in my uh in my home concert.
>> Exactly. Exactly. See you in Paris.
>> See you later.
>> Pier is headed to Paris not for racing
affairs, but for a fashion commitment.
Between the 24 races a year, Gassley is
pulled in countless directions, a
welloiled business machine of his own.
His contract with Alpine anchors a brand
empire that spans luxury time pieces
with H Moser and C signature sunglasses
with Hawkers, partnerships with Sonic
Labs and Reebok, and a sponsorship deal
with AIX Investment Group. His influence
also extends into French football with a
recent ownership stake in FC Versailles.
And this week, Kier is in Paris for a
fragrance shoot for French fashion brand
Given.
How are you feeling today?
>> Yeah, I'm excited. Yeah,
>> it's a huge campaign campaign. I guess
you can tell with the number of people
we got on set today.
>> I know. It's amazing.
>> Pretty impressive.
>> Yeah. I can't imagine that you grew up
thinking you were going to be the face
of
>> never. It's uh one of those uh pinch me
moments in in your life where Yeah, for
sure. As a kid, I would have never
imagined representing such a luxurious
brand. Is it still weird for you to sort
of see yourself like on a billboard?
>> This campaign is so huge. Even for the
first race in Australia,
it was all over the the city. So, you'll
walk around and at times I'll see myself
like in like bus station or like metro
in the subway. And my phone like keeps
popping up like every day uh where I
have my friends. Oh, I've seen you there
in the subway in Paris. Oh, yeah. I've
seen you over there on this like uh TV
channel or there and there. And it's
quite odd. like it's not something
you're ever really thinking about, but
it's pretty special. You know, this is
the type of moment which I get to live
um now, but I don't expect to live
forever. You know, that's that's I know
it's not really it's not a normal life
at all. So, it's a
>> trying to make it feel normal as much as
you can. So, I can do my work,
>> right? But still, you know, realizing
and and knowing that it's definitely
very unique.
>> As an F1 driver, I have an interest as
well to, you know, explore different
stuff beside Formula 1. Quite a lot of
things that people might not see. Uh,
you know, we have the on track action,
we have quite a lot of work with the
team, whether it's in the simulator,
marketing, communication, and then there
is also personal project that I I work
on. So, it's quite full on. I try to
balance it to make sure that I'm able to
to be at 100%.
>> What has that been like to be a part of
that journey and also to sort of
participate in your own journey of
notoriety and and becoming probably more
famous than you thought you would ever
be?
>> Funny story is when I started in Formula
1, I remember my first year in Austin
going out one night um the restaurant
and start talking with someone and the
guy comes and goes ask what are you
doing? And I'm like, I am a driver. And
first reaction was yeah, what type of
driver? I'm F1 driver. What is that?
Like NASCAR. And I remember I failed so
many times to explain in the past what
F1 was. is just like yeah that that
worked kind of NASCA like slightly
different in the space of like six seven
years the interest for Formula 1
especially in the states has multiplied
by I don't know 6 7 8 all the osteine
Miami Vegas everything sold out and the
interest of American people in the sport
is is just huge now
>> fast forward from not being recognized
not and
>> not even understand what you do in a bar
in Austin or a restaurant in Austin
>> to then this year in 2025 being in Time
Square.
>> Yeah.
>> Celebrated, you know, as sort of one of
the biggest cultural moments
>> probably in all of sport and culture. I
think that's that's one of the biggest
evolution in a sport we've seen like
especially in the in the last decade for
F1 just to show a lot more from what we
do within our F1 cycle but also
personally us as drivers kind of open
the doors on who we are because in the
past they'll recognize us with the color
of our suit or helmet or our race number
but people don't really see who we are
as individuals. I think being an athlete
in 2025 is um is a huge chance even more
than what it used to be. I think there
is a real interest from brands to use
top athletes not only in Formula 1, I
think at all levels and and all type of
sports, but to use these figures that
people can relate to, that people get
inspired from.
In an era where careers can end in an
instant, Gastley embodies the new
athletic paradigm. Build the brand while
you can still drive the car because the
business of Gastley must survive long
after someone faster comes along.
I got a team around me which I had to to
build over time because that didn't it's
not from the first day I got to F1 that
I had, you know, all these deals coming
straight away on the table. went from a
moment where was looking for deals and
opportunities to a moment where you got
to be selective in what you do and be
careful in the way that you use your
image and the brands that you you work
with because I think they're able to get
more into the sport and into our life as
an athlete than than they were before.
>> How do you go about choosing the people
that are going to be around you? I will
say to start I was one of the few guys
to get into Formula 1 without a
management company I think which addis
uh pros and cons as well. So it took me
some some years a lot of meetings met a
lot of people within Formula 1 until you
know I found the right guy and and my
manager at the moment we started after
my first year in Formula 1 and and that
I've been working with ever since. I'm
obviously someone very driven. I know
what I want. Uh I know exactly where I
go. But I think it's very important to
me also to have feedback and
confirmations from people I can trust. I
had the chance um you know to have the
family I have. I'm very lucky. Not
everybody gets that chance. And that's
why I want to contribute, you know, for
young drivers in bringing that sort of
support and environment and structure to
advice in the best way possible cuz it's
very easy to make a wrong decision that
could impact a carrier very negatively
and and unfortunately have quite big
consequences.
While in Paris, Gazzley is meeting with
a wealth management firm to launch a new
fund intended to support young drivers
rising through the ranks.
We just launched um a new fund of
donation um which is based around
supporting young talent uh in
motorsports. It's something which is
very important to me. I obviously grew
up in motorsports with the help of a lot
of people throughout my career. I've
seen friends or other kids which I could
see they had something they had the
talent to develop and they had the
potential to potentially become
professional in the future. But
unfortunately they didn't even get the
chance. They had to stop because they
didn't have the fundings. They didn't
have the support.
Forever
[Music]
profession. Foreigne.
Fore!
Foreign! Foreign!
Fore
[Music]
system.
Fore.
I feel there's a lot more to do for our
sport. there is much better platform um
and support to provide to some of these
uh young kids. We know it's an expensive
sport. Not everybody gets the chance to
just access the sport itself. This is uh
where hopefully we'll be able to help in
the future and uh and that's what we we
launched today.
>> Beyond the fun development, Gassley has
also expanded his horizons outside of
Formula 1, taking the plunge into
another world unto itself, football. One
that he's been enamored with from an
early age. You mentioned football and
you have invested in in a football club
right here in France in Versailles FC.
Endorsing is one thing but owning is an
entirely other thing.
>> It's a new project. Uh I've been you
know involved in the FC Versail for for
a year now. There is Formula 1 in my
life. My love for Formula 1, but
football is right there is right right
underneath. So it's been a huge passion
since I was a a kid. I played football
from the age of 6 until 11. I had to
make a choice and luckily I made the
right choice.
>> Who knows? You could be you could be a
world famous footballer at this point.
>> I can guarantee you I made the right I
made the right call. I've always had
that will of being involved in football.
The first conversation started uh in
becoming a potential owner and having my
input as a professional athlete. I think
there is a a lot of uh parallels as an
athlete in managing your carrier that
can be very useful uh from an ownership
point of view.
>> And so with that in mind, is that a bit
of a predictor of you know what what
your life might look like when when you
do stop driving? I know you don't want
to think about that right now, but like
as you think well down the line, do you
think about sports ownership more? Do
you think about broader business? like
what what's your what are your longer
term goals when it comes to the business
side of PR Gasley?
>> I don't think I'll ever stop driving
>> my career.
>> You're going to be the oldest F1 driver
and that you're going to be driving an
F1 car around the circuit at 200 mph at
100 years old. Okay. But when you're not
doing that,
>> well, my career might stop. I still be
driving something.
>> Yes, that's right. You'll be driving
something somewhere. Probably very fast.
I have a lot of ideas in you know the
the sort of uh industries that I like to
be to be part of but it's obviously at
the moment uh allowing me time to you
know grow my knowledge uh about it and
and making sure I make the right thing
because I'm the type of person when I I
get involved into a project I'm doing it
100%. So I commit myself 100% and with
FC VSI I'm I'm doing it for the long
term. I'm not looking at a few years of
excitement and thrill and then getting
out of it. I'm I'm doing it for the
journey and that's the way I am. So
yeah, there are definitely a lot of
projects and industries I like to
explore. We live in a in a time where
things evolve extremely fast.
Technologies, things 10 years ago were
very different to what they are now. And
I know in 10 year things will look quite
different. So yeah, it's in the back of
my mind, but I'm also giving allowing
myself some time to make sure make the
right calls uh in the future. So, what
does the future hold for Pierre Gassley?
That remains to be seen. F1 can be as
fickle as they come with nothing
guaranteed. Gassley and his team are
taking advantage of the opportunities
that surround him while he's a top
driver on the grid so that the business
of Gazzley can survive long after his
last lap.
[Music]